Tranditional festival
in my country have a lot of festival but Tet is the most importants, Tet takes place on the first days of the Lunar year.
there are interesing ativities in this festival, they prepare a lot of things, for example delicouis foods, fresh flowers,
fruits so on
they celebrate partys, visit grandparents, give the best wishes and get a lot of lucky money.
i also like the water festival in Thailand. i will go with you


i will go to your shop to buy a pet in next weak, i will go with my friend because she also likes a pet
i like many types of pets such as  a cat, a dog,a hamster, a rabbit, a fish, so on.
i like dog best because it is very smart and cute. it can help me protect the house.
i am a student so i do not have enough money. i have only 1 million. i hope you can help me chose a suitable pet.





i like wacthing TV programs when i have free time.
it helps me relax after school. there are TV programs in vietnam
such as Running Man, The Voice, The Face, so on.
i like Ai La Trieu Phu best because it is very nice and interesting.
it provides a lot of useful knowledge.
 it helps me learn a lot of new things.
  there are questions in that program.
  players must answer all questions to recieve a lot of money.
  it is very useful because it can help us widen knowledge
if you have free time, you can watching with me. i believe you will realley like it

i prefer outdoor ativities because i can exercise and breathe the fesh air
i want to go swimming because it very funny.
it is very useful because it is a necessary skill that we must know
i went camping some times with my friends in my school. it was very funny and interesting


i also run every days so i can run with you
i think it is not enough. i think you should do exercise every days. it helps you keep healthy and keep fit.
i think you combine with a healthy diet. you should eat a lot of fruits, vegetables. you should avoid fast food, sugar, meat.
there are some gyms in this area. you can go there to training every days, it is near your house.
i have free time on the weakend so i can help you. it can helps us keep healthy and keep fit







STT: 37
1. có nhiều: there are
2. lễ hội: festival
3. quốc gia: country
4. quan trọng: important
5. diễn ra: take place (v)
6. hoạt động: ativities(ativity)
7. thú vị: interesting
8. chuẩn bị: prepare
9. ví dụ như: for example / such as
10. món ăn ngon: delicous
11. hoa tươi: fresh flower
12. tổ chức: hold / celebrate / organize
13. viếng thăm: visit
14. ông bà: grandparents
15. nhận: recevie / get/ claim
16. tiền lì xì: lucky money
17. cũng: also
18. tuần sau: next weak
19. thích ... nhất : like ... best
20. giữ nhà : protect the house
21. chỉ: just / only
22. khoảng : about
23.	Triệu: million
24. hy vọng: hope
25. chọn: select / choose
26. phù hợp: suitable
27. để : to / in order to
28. thú cưng: pet
29. chương trình: program
30. thời gian rảnh: free time
31. thư giản sau giờ học: relax after school
32.cung cấp: provide
33.kiến thức: knowledge
34.bổ ích: useful
35.nhiều điều mới: a lot of new things
36.tất cả: all
37.mở rộng kiến thức: widen knowledge
38.trả lời: answer
39.tin tưởng: believe
40.cắm trại: go camping
41.hoạt động ngoài trời: outdoor ativities
42.thích hơn: prefer
43.vận động: exercise
44.hít thở: breathe / enjoy
45.không khí trong lành: the fresh air
46.kĩ năng: skill
47.đi bơi: go swimming
48.mà: that
49.biết: know
50.nhiều lần: many times
51.một vài lần: some times
52.cần thiết necessary
53.câu hỏi:


2/4
new word
1. ăn mặc lịch sự: dress politely / wear politely
2. áo sơ mi : a shirts
3. quần tây: trousers / pants
4. váy: a skirt
5. phù hợp: suitable
6. mang theo: bring
7. cần thiết: necessary
8. ghi chú: note
9. cần: need
10. đi đến đó: go there
11. tiện lợi: convenience
12. nhanh chóng: quickly
13. mà: that
14. viết: write
15. tuyệt vời: wonderful / amazing / great
16. cung cấp:supply / provide
17. thông tin thú vị: interesting information
18. phần kết luận: conclusion
19. ngắn gọn: reline / brief / short
20. dễ hiểu: easy to understand
21.tuy nhiên: however
22.sai: wrong false
23.sửa: fix
24.gặp: meet
25.thảo luận: discuss
26.thư viện: library
27.sử dụng: use
28.mạng xã hội: social media
29.phổ biến popular
30. ngày nay: today / nowadays
31. kết bạn: add friends
32. giảm căng thẳng: reduce stress
33. cập nhật: update
34. ảnh hưởng affect
35. rất nhiều (cuối câu): so much/very much/ a lot/ too much
36. lợi ích: benefits
37. dành (thời gian): spend
38. đến thăm: visit
39. giới thiệu: introduce
40. nhà hàng nổi tiếng: famous restaurant
41. chuẩn bị cẩn thận: prepare carefuly
42. vị trí: location
43. nhân viên: the staff


6 gala/
i think we should wear politely. we can wear a shirt, pants,a skirt.
it is beautiful and suitable.

i think we should bring latops because it is very necessary.
 we can not a lot of things when we need

 we can go there by taxi. it is convenient and quickly

 7/ a new book
 i read a book you wrote. it is very amazing
 it is very good because it can provide a lot interesting information
 i like conclusion of the book best. it is very brief and easy to understand
 however, i think there is wrong information that we need to fix when we meet
 we can discuss some information about writing a new book.
 we can meet in library on the weekend

 8/ social media
 i usually use social networks because it is popular today
 i often use facebook and tiktok. most people use it because it is very funny and interesting
 it can help me relax after school because i can use social networks to talk to my friends and my family.
 i can also add friend with many people. i also can wacth funny clips to reduce stress.
 i can also use social networks to update information

it affects me very much because it brings many benefit. however, i do not spend much time for it
 9/ open a new restaurant
 you can visit me on sunday because i have free time on the weekend
 i will introduce a few famous restaurant in my city. you can go there and enjoy a lot of delicouis foods
 i think you need prepare a lot of things carefully when you want to open a new restaurant
 such as the location, deliscouis food, the staff so on.

10/ Won a concert ticket
I win this ticket last week in the supermarket
There are famous singers in this a concert sush as Hieu Thu Hai, Toc Tien, Den Vau,… I think you also really like them
I had this ticket when I played games in supermarket and I won. A lot of peoples joined but I won.

11/ Yourself
My name is Cow. I am a student. I am studying in CanTho University of Technology. My hometown is "Xu So Banh Pia".
I usually came back home when I have free time. In my free time I usually listening music, watching films,  reading books.
Especially, I like playing sports. It can help me relax and keep healthy.
I feel very funny when you can visit my country.
I will introduce beautifull views, delicious foods in our country. I believe you will very like them,

12/ Sports
I like playing sports and I play sports everyday. It’s very good for health.
I play many kinds of sports such as football, volleyball, basketball, swimming.
I usually play sports. Sometimes I also watch sports with my family
I think you can try pickleball because it very popular nowadays*\


13/ A new puppy
I have a pet. that is a dog. The name is Cat
My mother gave it to me on my birthday. I really like it. It’s very cute.
I often take a walk and play with it. I take care of it every day.
It helps me relax after school. I feed it rice, fish, milk,… It helps me protect the house.
However, I have some problems when I take care of it.
I have to bathe it every day. Besides, I must usually clean up house

new word
1. đi cắm trại: go camping
2. nhiều lần: many times
3. kinh nghiệm: experience
4. lời khuyên: advice
5. chuẩn bị cẩn thận: prepare carefully
6. vật dụng cá nhân: personal thinhgs
7. kem chống nắng: sunscreen
8. áo mưa: a raincoat
9. đốt lửa trại: set camping fire
10 tham gia: join / take part in/ participate in
11. sự kiện lớn: the bigest event
12. ngày nghỉ: day off
13. ấm cúng: warm / cosy
14. món ăn truyền thống:  tranditional food
15. quảng cáo: advertisement
16. quốc tế: international
17. hào hứng : excited
18. văn hóa: culture
19. kĩ năng làm việc nhóm: teamwork skill
20. kĩ năng lãnh đạo: leader skill
21. trở thành: become
22. chi phí/giá cả: the price
23. chọn: choose
24. động vật: sea animals
25. tìm hiểu: search - look for - friend
26. thu hút: attract
27. người xem: viewers
28. một bài thuyết trình: a presentation
29. dàn ý rõ ràng: clear outline
30. buổi hội thảo: a seminar / a workshop
31. diễn ra: take place
32. bận rộn: busy
33. tiện lợi: convenience